README.md, before:

# Filelock [![Build Status][travis-img-url]][travis-url]

[travis-img-url]: https://travis-ci.org/sheerun/filelock.png
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/sheerun/filelock

Heavily tested, but simple filelocking solution using [flock](http://linux.die.net/man/2/flock) command. It guarantees unlocking of files.

It works for sure on MRI 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, JRuby in both 1.8 and 1.9 mode, and Rubinius.

This gem doesn't support NFS. You can use it with [GlusterFS](http://www.gluster.org/), though.

## Usage

```ruby
Filelock '/tmp/path/to/lock' do
  # do blocking operation
end
```

You can also pass the timeout for blocking operation (default is 60 seconds):

```ruby
Filelock '/tmp/path/to/lock', :timeout => 10 do
  # do blocking operation
end
```

Note that lock file directory must already exist, and lock file is not removed after unlock.

## FAQ

*Does it support NFS?*

No. You can use more complex [lockfile](https://github.com/ahoward/lockfile) gem if you want to support NFS.

*The code is so short. Why shouln't I just copy-paste it?*

Because even such short code can have issues in future. File locking is very fragile operation. You may expect new releases of this gem fixing discovered bogus behavior (or introducing awesome features).

You are encouraged to use it if you develop gem that uses flock command, and care about running it on different ruby versions and platforms. Each has its own quirks with regard to flock command.

*How it's different from [lockfile](https://github.com/ahoward/lockfile) gem?*

Lockfile is filelocking solution handling NFS filesystems, based on homemade locking solution. Filelock uses [flock](http://linux.die.net/man/2/flock) UNIX command to handle filelocking on very low level. Also lockfile allows you to specify retry timeout. In case of Ruby's flock command this is hard-cored to 0.1 seconds.

*How it's different from [cleverua-lockfile](https://github.com/cleverua/lockfile) gem?*

Cleverua removes lockfile after unlocking it. Thas has been proven fatal both in my tests and in [filelocking advices from the Internet](http://world.std.com/~swmcd/steven/tech/flock.html). You could try find a way to remove lock file without breaking Filelock tests. I will be glad to accept such pull-request.

## Contribute

Try to break Filelock in some way (note it doesn't support NFS).

## License

Filelock is MIT-licensed. You are awesome.

Commit message:

added a couple exception classes and added :wait opt

README.md, after:

# Filelock [![Build Status][travis-img-url]][travis-url]

[travis-img-url]: https://travis-ci.org/sheerun/filelock.png
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/sheerun/filelock

Heavily tested, but simple filelocking solution using [flock](http://linux.die.net/man/2/flock) command. It guarantees unlocking of files.

It works for sure on MRI 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, JRuby in both 1.8 and 1.9 mode, and Rubinius.

This gem doesn't support NFS. You can use it with [GlusterFS](http://www.gluster.org/), though.

## Usage

```ruby
Filelock '/tmp/path/to/lock' do
  # do blocking operation
end
```

You can also pass the timeout for blocking operation (default is 60 seconds):

```ruby
Filelock '/tmp/path/to/lock', :timeout => 10 do
  # do blocking operation
end
```

You can also pass a wait timeout for grabbing the lock (default is 60 seconds):

```ruby
Filelock '/tmp/path/to/lock', :wait => 10 do
  # do blocking operation
end
```

Note that lock file directory must already exist, and lock file is not removed after unlock.

## FAQ

*Does it support NFS?*

No. You can use more complex [lockfile](https://github.com/ahoward/lockfile) gem if you want to support NFS.

*The code is so short. Why shouln't I just copy-paste it?*

Because even such short code can have issues in future. File locking is very fragile operation. You may expect new releases of this gem fixing discovered bogus behavior (or introducing awesome features).

You are encouraged to use it if you develop gem that uses flock command, and care about running it on different ruby versions and platforms. Each has its own quirks with regard to flock command.

*How it's different from [lockfile](https://github.com/ahoward/lockfile) gem?*

Lockfile is filelocking solution handling NFS filesystems, based on homemade locking solution. Filelock uses [flock](http://linux.die.net/man/2/flock) UNIX command to handle filelocking on very low level. Also lockfile allows you to specify retry timeout. In case of Ruby's flock command this is hard-cored to 0.1 seconds.

*How it's different from [cleverua-lockfile](https://github.com/cleverua/lockfile) gem?*

Cleverua removes lockfile after unlocking it. Thas has been proven fatal both in my tests and in [filelocking advices from the Internet](http://world.std.com/~swmcd/steven/tech/flock.html). You could try find a way to remove lock file without breaking Filelock tests. I will be glad to accept such pull-request.

## Contribute

Try to break Filelock in some way (note it doesn't support NFS).

## License

Filelock is MIT-licensed. You are awesome.
